So, let's have a look into a way
we can build these complex geoproximity records
using a feature called Traffic Flow.
This is not just applying to geoproximity,
but applies to everything.
So, the idea is that we have a UI, a visual editor,
that allows us to manage complex routing decision trees.
So, this is the UI we'll have,
and in there we can specify different rules.
We'll have a play with it.
Though the idea is that instead of writing the records
one by one in your DNS management system in Route 53
we're going to just manage all of them visually.
And the cool thing about it is that it's going to be saved
as a Traffic Flow Policy,
and it can be versioned,
it can be applied to different hosted zones,
and we can easily change them
and apply them in our hosted zones.
So, let's have a look in the hands-on right now
to see how we can do it.
Okay, so let's go ahead.
We're gonna go on the left-hand side panel,
and you will find Traffic policies.
So, in here we get the UI,
we can create a Traffic Policy.
And I'll call this one DemoGeoPolicy, and click on Next.
So, here we have a starting point,
and the starting point is you have to specify
the type of record you want to create.
Is it an A, AAAA, CNAME, etcetera, etcetera,
and it gives you a detail about what each record is.
So, we'll have an A record,
and here we have to connect to a specific rule.
And as you can see, we can get Weighted rule,
Failover rule, Geolocation rule, Latency rule,
Multivalue, Geoproximity, or just an endpoint.
So, if you wanted to specify something very simple,
for example an A into an endpoint,
you could say the A record will point to this value
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, right?
And this would be the record itself,
a very, very simple record.
But obviously we can create more complicated policies.
So, we can connect to a Weighted rule,
and here we can specify multiple weights.
So, we say a weight of 10 goes to, and then again,
we could have some advanced records, for example,
a Failover and so on.
So, we can get some really complicated stuff.
And when you're ready you can say endpoint,
and specify the value of the IPv4 that you want.
So, obviously we're not going to build
something as complicated.
As you can see, on the Weighted rule for example
we can add another weight, and so on, and so on.
And so, all of it is visual,
and it really allows us to make sense
of what is happening within Route 53.
So, we are not going to create a Weighted rule though,
we are going to create a Geoproximity rule.
And we can show the map as well to have a visual feedback
of what we're trying to do.
So, here we have to enter the first region,
and then we can have the second region.
So, now for the first endpoint location
you can enter custom coordinates, or you can, for example,
have one of these regions of AWS available to you.
So, we're going to use the ones we have created from before.
So, we'll choose US-East-1,
and then we have to specify a bias.
And then I will move the map a little bit to the left,
I will just remove it for now.
And then this record right here is going to connect
to a new endpoint,
and the value of it
is going to be my US-East-1 EC2 instance.
So, I will paste the value, and we're good to go.
For now we'll leave the bias as zero.
Then for the second region we can enter some coordinates.
So, we can say for example Singapore,
which was AP Southeast 1.
And let's do it, Singapore, again, here we go.
And then this is going to connect to a new endpoint,
and that endpoint has to be my IP address of AP-Southeast-1.
Press Enter, and we're good to go.
So, now that we have created this policy
let's have a look at the map.
So, for this I will click on Show Map.
And so, this geoproximity map is going to show me,
based on the input I have right now,
which users are going to go to which instance.
So, if you're on that side of the world,
the blue side of the world,
as you can see there's a line dividing
the blue and the orange side of the world,
then you're going to go to my first instance.
If you're on the second side of the world
you're gonna go to my second instance.
And if we change the bias,
so if we increase the bias for example
of my instance in here, so we put a bias of 34,
this is going to increase the surface of the world
that is going to be redirected
to my instance in North America.
If I decrease the bias to something negative
it's going to do the opposite thing.
It's going to center more of the traffic
onto my instance number two.
So, we can really play it and really have a visual aspect,
and the cool thing is that we can consider
more than two instances.
Of course, we can add another geoproximity location,
and for the details we're going to say
this is in Frankfurt.
And then we're going to have, as you can see now, a new map.
And again, you can play with the bias,
and see how the bias is going to impact
your geoproximity map.
And so, this Frankfurt, we're going to have it
to a new endpoint.
And we'll have the EU-Central-1 in here, paste it,
and then Create traffic policy.
So, we've done this one,
and now we need to deploy this
traffic policy with policy records.
So, for this I will just deploy this one
into the hosted zone, stephanetheteacher.com,
and we can set that, this policy record name
is going to be proximity.stephanetheteacher.com.
And we can specify a TTL.
And very importantly,
the pricing per month is $50 per month,
so to just create this policy record
you will pay $50 per month.
It's prorated obviously for how long you keep it,
but if you want to remain within the free tier and,
you shouldn't create it obviously.
So, I'll just create it just to show you what it means,
and I will delete it right after.
But this is not necessary for you to go
all the way, obviously.
So, let's create this policy record.
As you can see now, the policy versions are here.
So, we can edit this policy if we wanted to,
and edit this and deploy it as a new version.
And from there we can see the records that have been created
with this DemoGeoPolicy.
And so, if we have a look again at the map
we can demonstrate how this works.
So, let's click on this Geoproximity rule in here,
so let's edit this as a new version, Next,
and then click on this map.
So, as we can see, if I'm in Europe, like I'm in France,
I will be able to connect to this instance,
if I'm in Brazil I will connect to that instance,
and if I am in, for example, India, again,
I will connect to that region.
So, we'll verify this in a second by testing the record.
So, let's cancel and wait for this to be created.
So, the policy record has been applied.
As you can see, the version used is number one.
So, if I connect from where I am, I'm in Europe right now,
I will get the EU-Central-1,
and so, which is perfect.
If I go to Brazil, for example, zed, and refresh my page,
and then it should be connecting to my American instance.
So, let's verify this in a second.
Yes, and finally, if I connect to something in Asia,
so let's change this.
Let's go to Thailand, for example,
and then refresh, I'm gonna get my AP-Southeast-1b instance.
So, this is perfect.
And if we go back into Route 53 now and refresh this
you can see if I go to Filter and type proximity
the record itself, this proximity record,
is directly routing to a traffic policy record, okay?
And the only way I can edit this record
is if I click on Edit right here,
and this will take me directly
into the traffic policy UI, okay?
So, that's it for this lecture.
I'm just going to save some money, obviously,
and delete this policy record right now
so it doesn't cost me $50 a month.
And I hope you liked this lecture.
I will see you in the next lecture.